---
title: "Framework of Chemical Assessment for Mechanism Evaluation and Optimization (CAMEO)" 
date: 2025-06-19
#lastmod: 2025-06-19
tags: ["Chemical Mechanism Development", "Data Infrastructure"]
author: ["Jia Jiang"]
summary: "CAMEO framework provides a unified database that integrates experimental observations, box model outputs, and detailed mechanistic information. Its querying functions and interactive visualization tools enable transparent and comprehensive comparisons between laboratory data and model predictions."
cover:
    image: "cameo.png"
    alt: "CAMEO Framework"
    relative: false
editPost:
    #URL: ""
    Text: "Funded by EPA"
showToc: true
disableAnchoredHeadings: false

---


## Timeline
Oct 2024 - Present

---

## Description
Secondary organic aerosol (SOA) formation from the oxidation of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) involves complex, multigenerational chemistry that remains only partially represented in current atmospheric models. While laboratory studies have significantly advanced the detection and quantification of key gas and particle phase intermediates, incorporating these insights into chemical mechanisms remains challenging due to the complexity of the chemistry, the dynamic nature of oxidation processes, and the large volume of data. 

To address this gap, we introduce the Chemical Assessment for Mechanism Evaluation and Optimization (CAMEO) framework. CAMEO provides a unified database that integrates experimental observations, box model outputs, and detailed mechanistic information. Its querying functions and interactive visualization tools enable transparent and comprehensive comparisons between laboratory data and model predictions.

We demonstrate the application of CAMEO through the evaluation of the oxidation of α-pinene, a major biogenic VOC contributing to global emissions and SOA formation. Two representative mechanisms are assessed: an explicit mechanism generated by the SAPRC Mechanism Generation System (MechGen) and a lumped mechanism from the Community Regional Atmospheric Chemistry Multiphase Mechanism Version 2 (CRACMM2), both representing current understanding of α-pinene oxidation chemistry. 

CAMEO streamlines the process of connecting laboratory data with modeled species through automated data handling and mapping. As new datasets become available, its flexible design supports ongoing updates to chemical mechanisms, improves data organization, and ensures consistency across studies. By simplifying data comparison, CAMEO helps identify gaps in current mechanisms and encourages collaboration and data sharing across research groups.


---

## Presentation
 * **Jiang, J.**, et al., Dec 2025, Linking Laboratory Observations to Chemical Mechanisms: A Framework for VOC Oxidation Evaluation, *American Geophysical Union (AGU) 2025 Annual Meeting*.
 * **Jiang, J.**, et al., Oct 2025, Systematic Integration of Laboratory Insights into Chemical Mechanisms Development for SOA Formation, *American Association for Aerosol Research (AAAR) 43rd Annual Conference*.
 * **Jiang, J.**, et al., Dec 2024, A Framework for Integrating Laboratory Data into Chemical Mechanism Development, *Atmospheric Chemical Mechanisms Conference 2024*.